Project Gutenberg's The Story of a Monkey on a Stick, by Laura Lee Hope

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net


Title: The Story of a Monkey on a Stick

Author: Laura Lee Hope

Illustrator: Harry L. Smith

Release Date: December 11, 2005 [EBook #17277]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE STORY OF A MONKEY ON A STICK ***




Produced by Marilynda Fraser-Cunliffe, Emmy and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net








[Illustration: Monkey Shook Paws With Candy Rabbit.
_Frontispiece_--(Page 6)]



_MAKE BELIEVE STORIES_

(Trademark Registered)

THE STORY OF A MONKEY ON A STICK

BY LAURA LEE HOPE

Author of "The Story of a Sawdust Doll," "The Story
of a White Rocking Horse," "The Bobbsey Twins
Series," "The Bunny Brown Series," "The
Six Little Bunkers Series," Etc.

ILLUSTRATED BY
HARRY L. SMITH

NEW YORK
GROSSET & DUNLAP
PUBLISHERS

Made in the United States of America




BOOKS BY LAURA LEE HOPE
Durably bound. Illustrated.

=MAKE BELIEVE STORIES=

          THE STORY OF A SAWDUST DOLL
          THE STORY OF A WHITE ROCKING HORSE
          THE STORY OF A LAMB ON WHEELS
          THE STORY OF A BOLD TIN SOLDIER
          THE STORY OF A CANDY RABBIT
          THE STORY OF A MONKEY ON A STICK
          THE STORY OF A CALICO CLOWN


=THE BOBBSEY TWINS SERIES=

          THE BOBBSEY TWINS
          THE BOBBSEY TWINS IN THE COUNTRY
          THE BOBBSEY TWINS AT THE SEASHORE
          THE BOBBSEY TWINS AT SCHOOL
          THE BOBBSEY TWINS AT SNOW LODGE
          THE BOBBSEY TWINS ON A HOUSEBOAT
          THE BOBBSEY TWINS AT MEADOW BROOK
          THE BOBBSEY TWINS AT HOME
          THE BOBBSEY TWINS IN A GREAT CITY
          THE BOBBSEY TWINS ON BLUEBERRY ISLAND
          THE BOBBSEY TWINS ON THE DEEP BLUE SEA
          THE BOBBSEY TWINS IN WASHINGTON
          THE BOBBSEY TWINS IN THE GREAT WEST


=THE BUNNY BROWN SERIES=

=THE SIX LITTLE BUNKERS SERIES=

=THE OUTDOOR GIRLS SERIES=

GROSSET & DUNLAP, PUBLISHERS, NEW YORK


COPYRIGHT, 1920, BY GROSSET & DUNLAP

THE STORY OF A MONKEY ON A STICK




CONTENTS

          CHAPTER                              PAGE

             I. A STRANGE AWAKENING              1

            II. THE MONKEY AT SCHOOL            13

           III. THE JANITOR'S HOUSE             25

            IV. A QUEER RIDE                    38

             V. MONKEYSHINES                    50

            VI. IN A CAVE                       60

           VII. OUT IN THE RAIN                 73

          VIII. HERBERT FINDS THE MONKEY        85

            IX. MONKEY IN A TENT                95

             X. MONKEY IN A SHOW               107




THE STORY OF A MONKEY ON A STICK




CHAPTER I

A STRANGE AWAKENING


The Monkey on a Stick opened his eyes and looked around. That is he
tried to look around; but all he could see, on all sides of him, was
pasteboard box. He was lying on his back, with his hands and feet
clasped around the stick, up which he had climbed so often.

"Well, this is very strange," said the Monkey on a Stick, as he rubbed
his nose with one hand, "very strange indeed! Why should I wake up here,
when last night I went to sleep in the toy store? I can't understand
this at all!"

Once more he looked about him. He surely was inside a pasteboard box. He
could see the cover of it over his head as he lay on his back, and he
could see one side of the box toward his left hand, while another side
of the box was at his right hand.

"And," said the Monkey on a Stick, speaking to himself, as he often did,
"I suppose the bottom of the pasteboard box is under me. I must be lying
on that."

He unclasped the toes of his left foot from the stick and banged his
foot down two or three times.

"Yes, there's pasteboard all around me," said the Monkey. "This surely
is very strange! I wonder if the Calico Clown has been up to any of his
tricks? Maybe he thinks I'm a riddle, and he's going to tell it to the
Elephant from the Noah's Ark, or else make a joke of me to the Jumping
Jack. I haven't been shut up in a box before--not since the time Santa
Claus brought me from his workshop at the North Pole. I wonder what this
means?"

The Monkey raised his head and banged it on the box cover.

"Oh, my cocoanut!" cried the Monkey, for that is what he sometimes
called his head. "My poor cocoanut!" he went on, as he put up his hand.
"I wonder if I raised a big lump on my cocoanut!"

But his head seemed to be all right, and, taking care not to bang
himself again, the Monkey began pushing on the box cover. It was not
heavy, and he slowly raised it until he could look out.

As I have told you in the other books of this series, the Monkey on a
Stick, and the other toys as well, could move about and talk, when they
kept to certain rules. You may find out what those rules were by looking
in the other books.

The Monkey on a Stick looked out from beneath the cover of the box, and
what he saw surprised him almost as much as he had been startled when he
found pasteboard on all sides of him. For the Monkey saw that he was in
the room of a strange house, and not in the big toy department of the
store where he had lived for so long a time.

"I say!" chattered the Monkey to himself, "there is something wrong
here. They must have given me paregoric to make me sleep, and then have
put me in a box and carted me down to some other part of the store. I'm
sure the Calico Clown must have had a hand in this. He and his jokes and
riddles about what makes more noise than a pig under a gate! I'll fix
him when I get out of here!"

The Monkey raised the box cover higher and began to call:

"Hi there, Calico Clown! what do you mean by shutting me up in a
pasteboard box? What's the joke? Come on, Mr. Elephant from Noah's Ark!
Come and help me out! Ho, Jack-Jump! Hi, Jack-Box! Where are you all? I
don't see any of you!"

For, as he looked around the room, from under the cover of the box, the
Monkey saw not a sign of his former friends.

"This is stranger and stranger," he murmured. "I say!" he cried aloud
again, "isn't any one here?"

"Yes, I'm here," answered a voice which, the Monkey knew at once, came
from a toy like himself. "What's the trouble?" this voice went on. "Why
are you making such a fuss? Who are you, anyhow?"

"I'm a Monkey on a Stick," answered the toy chap in the box. "And who
are you? I seem to know your voice. Where are you?"

"Here I am," came the answer.

The Monkey raised the box cover higher, and then he cried:

"Why, bless my tail! The Candy Rabbit! Well, of all things! Oh, I'm so
glad to see you! How are you?" and the Monkey jumped out of his box,
and, laying down his stick, ran across the table and shook paws with a
beautiful Candy Rabbit, who had a pink nose and pink glass eyes. The
Rabbit was on the table, and the Monkey saw that his pasteboard box was
there likewise.

"I am quite well, thank you," answered the Candy Rabbit, as he waved his
big ears to and fro. "And I am glad to see you--very glad! I knew there
was some kind of toy in that box, but I did not know it was you. I
haven't seen you since we lived in the toy store together, with the
Sawdust Doll, the Lamb on Wheels, the Bold Tin Soldier, the Calico Clown
and the White Rocking Horse."

"Yes, and don't forget the two Jacks," went on the Monkey on a Stick,
"the Jumping Jack and the Jack in the Box. Then there was the Elephant
who tried to race on roller skates with the White Rocking Horse."

"I'm not forgetting them," answered the Rabbit.

"But listen!" exclaimed the Monkey. "Can you tell me this? I went to
sleep in the toy store, and I woke up here--in a house, I guess it
is--in a pasteboard box on a table set with dishes."

"Yes, this is a house," said the Candy Rabbit. "I live here with a
little girl named Madeline. There is also a boy named Herbert here. And
these really are dishes on the table. It is the breakfast table, and
soon the children will be down to eat."

"But what am I doing here?" asked the Monkey in great surprise. "I can't
understand it! Why am I here? I went to sleep in the store, and I woke
up on a breakfast table. Can this be a trick or a riddle of the Calico
Clown's? Is he going to ask what is more surprised than a Monkey on a
Stick at the breakfast table, as he asks what makes more noise than a
pig under a gate?"

"No, I think the Calico Clown had nothing to do with your being here,"
said the Candy Rabbit with a smile.

"Then who did?" asked the Monkey.

"Herbert. A boy who lives here with his sister Madeline," went on the
Rabbit.

"Dear me! this is getting more and more riddly-like and jokey," said the
Monkey. "I don't understand it at all! Why am I not in the store where I
belong?"

"Because you don't belong there any more," cried the Candy Rabbit. "You
were bought for the boy Herbert, and you are here at his breakfast plate
as a surprise."

"Well, he isn't going to be any more surprised than I am," chattered the
Monkey. "I don't seem to understand this at all. How did I get here?"

"I imagine that, after you went to sleep in the store last night, one of
the clerks at the toy counter put you in the pasteboard box, wrapped you
up and sent you here."

"I see how it happened," said the Monkey. "I went to sleep in the store
yesterday afternoon. I had been up late the night before, as we toys
were having some fun. I was trying to guess a riddle the Calico Clown
asked. It was how do the seeds get inside the apple when there aren't
any holes in the skin. I was thinking of that riddle, and it kept me up
quite late the night before."

"Did you think of the answer?"

"No, I didn't," said the Monkey; "any more than I can think of the
answer to the Clown's riddle of what makes more noise than a----"

"Hush! Here come Madeline and Herbert to breakfast!" suddenly whispered
the Rabbit. "Back to your box as quick as you can. We toys are not
allowed to move about by ourselves when any one sees us, you know."

"Yes, I know!" chattered the Monkey.

Nimbly he sprang back to his box, and clasped the stick, up and down
which he climbed when a string was pulled. As he pulled the box cover
down over his head he heard the joyous shouts and laughter of two
children as they ran into the room.

"Happy birthday, Herbert!" called Madeline. "Look and see what Daddy
bought for you yesterday!"

When Herbert had the cover off the box and had looked at the Monkey on a
Stick lying there with a funny grin on his face, the boy smiled and
cried:

"Oh, it's a Climbing Monkey! Oh, this is just what I wanted! Oh, now I
can have a show and a circus and I'll ask Dick to come and bring his
Rocking Horse, and Arnold can come and bring his Bold Tin Soldier, and
we'll have lots of fun. Oh, look at my Monkey climb his stick!"

Herbert took his new birthday toy from the box, and, by pulling the
string, made the Monkey go up and down as fast as anything. Madeline
picked up her Candy Rabbit, and though that Bunny said nothing, he could
see all that went on.

"Oh, this is a dandy Monkey!" cried Herbert. "I can give a show with
him!"

While the little boy was making the funny chap go up and down the stick,
the door of the breakfast room opened and some one came in.




CHAPTER II

THE MONKEY AT SCHOOL


"Well, children, why aren't you eating breakfast?" a voice asked, and
Herbert, turning around, saw his mother. The Monkey on a Stick, who, if
he could not talk or do any tricks just then, could use his eyes, saw a
pleasant-faced lady entering the room. She was smiling at Madeline, who
had her Candy Rabbit in her hands, and at Herbert.

"Oh, look, Mother, what I found at my plate!" exclaimed Herbert, and he
pulled the string, and made the Monkey run up and down the stick. "It's
my birthday present!"

"Yes, Daddy said he was going to get you something," said Mother. "It
came from the store late yesterday afternoon, and I put it away, and had
it laid at your breakfast place this morning. Do you like it?"

"Oh, it's dandy!" exclaimed Herbert. "I love it!"

The children sat down and had an orange and some oatmeal and a glass of
milk and a roll with golden yellow butter on it. But of course the
Monkey and the Candy Rabbit had nothing to eat. They did not want
anything. Being toys, you see, they did not have to eat. Though, at
times, they could eat certain things if they wished.

Madeline kept her Candy Rabbit near her plate. All of a sudden, as the
little girl was eating, she dropped her spoon in her oatmeal dish, and a
drop of milk spattered into the glass eye of the Candy Rabbit.

"Oh, look what you did!" exclaimed Herbert, who saw what had happened.
"You'll blind your Rabbit."

"Oh, my poor Rabbit!" said Madeline, and, with her napkin, she carefully
wiped the drop of milk out of the Rabbit's eye. And the Bunny never even
blinked. That's what it is to be a Candy Rabbit, and have glass eyes.
Not all of us are as lucky as that, are we?

A little later Herbert dropped a piece of his buttered roll. It fell
near the Monkey, who was lying on the table near the breakfast plate of
the little boy. Some of the butter from the roll stuck to the stick
which the Monkey climbed up and down.

"Now look what you did, Herbert!" said Madeline. "You'll make the stick
so slippery with butter that the Monkey may fall off."

"Come, children," called Mother, as she again entered the room. "You
must finish your breakfast and go to school. Put your Monkey back in the
box, Herbert. Don't be late for school."

"No'm, we won't!" promised the brother and sister.

A little later they were on their way, walking side by side on the path
that led to the red school house down by the white bridge. Madeline
looked at her brother curiously as they came near the building where
they studied their lessons.

"Have you got your books under your coat, Herbert?" asked Madeline.

"No, I haven't my books," he said.

"Well, what have you?" asked Madeline. "You have _something_, for I can
see a lump. What is it?"

Before Herbert could answer, if he had wanted to, the bell rang and the
two children, and some others who were straggling along, had to run so
they would not be late. Then, for a time, Madeline forgot what it was
her brother was bringing to school under his coat.

Just before recess, his teacher, looking down toward Herbert, sitting
near Dick and Arnold, called out:

"What have you there, Herbert? What are you showing to the other boys
under your desk?"

"It--it's a Monkey!" answered Madeline's brother.

"A _monkey_!" exclaimed the teacher.

"Yes. It's my birthday Monkey," went on the little boy.

"Oh! A birthday monkey!" the teacher said again. "I think I had better
call the janitor and have him take care of your monkey for you," and
she started toward the door.

"Oh, no'm! He isn't a live monkey," said Herbert. "He's just a toy one,
on a stick."

"Herbert, you may bring me that Monkey," the teacher said, and Herbert,
very red in the face, walked up to the platform on which stood his
teacher's desk. In his hand Herbert carried his Monkey on a Stick.

"Where did you get this?" his teacher asked, as she took the toy from
Herbert and laid it on top of her desk.

"I got it for my birthday," he answered. "This morning."

"But why did you bring it to school?" went on the teacher. "You are
nearly always a good boy. Why did you bring your Monkey to school,
Herbert?"

"Oh, I--I just wanted to show him to Arnold and Dick," was the answer.
"We're going to have a show, and my Monkey is going to be in it. I
brought him to school under my coat!"

"Oh! Oh!" exclaimed Madeline, before she thought what she was saying. "I
saw something under his coat, and I thought it was his books. Oh! Oh!
And it was his Monkey!"

All the children laughed when Madeline said this, and even the teacher
could not help smiling. But she said:

"Silence, please, children. We must keep on with our lessons. And,
Herbert, it was wrong of you to bring your Monkey to school and take him
out to show to other boys. As a little punishment I shall keep your toy
in my desk until after school to-night. Then you may have him back."

"Yes'm," returned Herbert, still rather red in the face. He went back
to his desk, and the other children went on with their lessons.

The teacher put the Monkey on a Stick inside a big drawer.

"Well, this is the first of my adventures since I went to sleep in the
store and awakened in Herbert's house," thought the Monkey to himself,
as he found that he was shut up inside the teacher's desk. "I wondered
what Herbert was going to do with me when he slipped me under his coat
at the breakfast table. Now I must see what we have here."

It was not very dark inside the drawer of the teacher's desk. Enough
light came through the keyhole for the Monkey to see, and, among other
things, he noticed a bottle of ink and a small Doll. He was pleased to
see the Doll.

"Oh, here is a toy like myself!" said the Monkey, speaking in a
whisper. "How do you do?" he went on, sitting up and bowing to his new
acquaintance. "Are you any relation to the Sawdust Doll?" he asked
politely.

"I'm a second or third cousin," was the answer. "She is stuffed with
sawdust, but I am stuffed with cotton."

"Then I will call you Miss Cotton Doll," went on the Monkey. "What
brought you here? Were you so bad in school that you had to be shut up
in a desk?"

"No, not exactly. But a little girl named Mary brought me in her school
bag yesterday, and she took me out in the study hour, and the teacher
said it was wrong. So she took me away from the little girl named Mary."

"I thought Mary brought a lamb to school," said the Monkey on a Stick,
who, having lived in a toy store, of course knew all about toy books
and Mother Goose verses.

"That was another Mary," went on the Cotton Doll. "Besides Mary didn't
_bring_ the lamb to school, it _followed_ her one day."

"Oh, so it did--I had forgotten," went on the Monkey.

"But my Mary _brought_ me to school," said the Cotton Doll, "and her
teacher took me away. She put me in this desk drawer; the teacher did."

"Well, now we're here, let's have some fun," said the Monkey to the
Cotton Doll after a bit. "We are all alone by ourselves, and we can do
as we please. Let's look around and play. We can't stand up, as the
drawer isn't high enough, but we can crawl on our knees. Let's see what
else is here."

"All right," agreed the Cotton Doll. So while the teacher was hearing
the lessons of Herbert, Madeline and the other boys and girls, the
Monkey (crawling off his stick for the time being) and the Cotton Doll
went creeping on their hands and knees around the drawer.

"Let's look in the bottle of ink," proposed the Monkey, as he crawled
near it, and began pulling at the cork.

"Oh, don't do that!" cried the Cotton Doll, in a whisper, of course.
"Don't open it! You'll get all black!"

"Oh, if it's black ink, I know what we can do!" said the Monkey. "We can
black up like colored minstrels, and have a little show in here by
ourselves. I'll black your face with the ink, and you can black mine,
though I am pretty brown now."

"But I don't want my face blacked with ink!" cried the Cotton Doll, as
the Monkey took the cork from the bottle. "I don't want to be a
minstrel!"

"Oh, but you must!" insisted the Monkey, laughing, and, catching hold of
the Cotton Doll in one hand, he tilted up the ink bottle in the other,
and dipped in the end of his tail.

"Now I'll paint you nice and black!" he laughed.

"Oh, don't! Please don't!" begged the Cotton Doll, as she tried to get
away from the Monkey. But she couldn't, for he held her tightly, and the
inky end of the tail was coming nearer and nearer to her face.




CHAPTER III

THE JANITOR'S HOUSE


"There you are! Oh, how funny you look!" chattered the Monkey on a Stick
in a whisper to the Cotton Doll, as they were both shut up together in
the teacher's desk. "You don't know how funny you look! If I only had a
looking-glass I'd show you!"

"I don't care! I think you're real mean!" said the Cotton Doll. "Don't
you dare put any more ink on me!"

"I guess I've got enough on you now!" laughed the Monkey. "There's a
spot on your nose, one on your chin, and one on each of your cheeks." As
he spoke the Monkey put the cork back in the ink bottle and wiped the
inky end of his tail off on a piece of blotting paper in the desk.

"What's that you say?" cried the Cotton Doll. "Did you dare put ink on
my nose, on my chin and my cheeks?"

"That's what I did, just for fun!" chattered the mischievous Monkey.
And, really, he had done just that. Oh, he was a regular "cut-up" when
he was by himself, that Monkey was.

"I must look terrible!" said the poor Cotton Doll, and, raising her
hands, she rubbed them over her face. She felt the wet spots where the
Monkey had daubed her with ink.

"Oh! aren't you mean?" cried the Cotton Doll. "My little girl mistress
will never like me again when the teacher gives me back to her. I'm all
spoiled!"

"No, you just look funny!" laughed the Monkey. "You looked funny when I
put ink spots on you, but now you look funnier than ever, 'cause you've
spread the ink all around, and made big splotches of it. Oh, my! Excuse
me while I laugh!" he cried, and he wiggled and twisted around on the
bottom of the drawer, laughing in whispers at the funny look on the face
of the Cotton Doll.

"You're too mean for anything!" said the Doll to the Monkey, and she was
almost ready to cry. But she happened to think that if she shed any
tears they would wash down through the ink on her cheeks and make her
look queerer than ever. So she did not cry.

"I'm never going to speak to you again, so there!" exclaimed the Cotton
Doll, and she would have stamped her foot if there had been room for her
to stand up in the desk drawer--which there wasn't. So she just banged
her heels on the bottom of it.

"Oh, I'll be good!" promised the Monkey. "I won't put any more ink on
you, and I'll see if I can get some of it off on this piece of blotting
paper. I blotted my tail on it."

He tried to clean the Doll's face, but, by this time, the ink had dried,
and you know how hard it is to get dried ink off your fingers after you
have written a letter. Well, it was this way with the Cotton Doll. The
ink stayed on her face.

"Well, if you have ink on your face I've also got some on the end of my
tail, where I dipped it into the bottle," said the Monkey chap, thinking
to cheer up the Doll by this.

"Yes, but the ink doesn't show on your brown tail as it does on my white
face," said the Doll. "However, there is no use crying over spilled
milk, I suppose," she went on. "Only if you do such a thing again I'll
never speak to you as long as I live!"

"I'll never do it again," said the Monkey in a sorrowful voice. "Now
let's have some fun. You tell me some of your adventures and I'll tell
you some of mine. Did you ever live in a store?"

"Oh, yes, that's where I came from," answered the Doll.

"And was there a Calico Clown in your store, who was always asking what
it was that made more noise than a pig under a gate?" asked the Monkey.

"No. But there was a Jumping Jack who was always trying to see how high
he could kick, and one day he nearly kicked my hat off," said the Cotton
Doll. "But tell me, please, some of your adventures."

The Monkey was just starting to tell how the Calico Clown's red and
yellow trousers were burned in the gas jet one day, when, all of a
sudden, there was a great noise and commotion in the schoolroom. The
Monkey and the Doll could not tell what had caused it, though the Monkey
did try to look out through the keyhole.

"Can you see anything?" asked the Doll.

"I can see some water dripping down," answered the long-tailed chap,
"and the teacher and the children are running around as fast as
anything."

"Oh, I wonder what has happened!" exclaimed the Doll. And just then she
and the Monkey on a Stick heard the teacher say:

"Run out quickly, children! Run out, all of you. A water pipe has burst
and there's a regular rain storm inside our nice schoolroom."

"Please can't I have my Monkey on a Stick before I go out?" asked
Herbert. "You put him in your desk, Teacher!"

"And I want my knife you took away, please!" called another boy.

"We have no time for those things, now," the teacher said. "The water is
coming down fast, and we'll all be wet through if we stay. The Monkey,
knife and other things will be all right in my desk. Get your hats, and
pass out quickly. More pipes may burst and flood the school.

"Go home, children, all of you," said the teacher. "To-morrow the pipes
will be mended, and, if the school is dry enough, we will go on with our
lessons. But run home now."

You may well imagine that most of the boys and girls were glad of the
holiday that had come to them so unexpectedly. But Herbert felt sorry;
that he had to leave his Monkey on a Stick in school. When he reached
home he acted so strangely that his mother wanted to know what the
matter was.

Of course Herbert had to tell that he had taken his Monkey to school,
and he also had to tell what had happened afterward.

"Of course you did wrong," said Herbert's mother, "and you must suffer a
little punishment."

"What kind of punishment?" asked Herbert.

"The punishment of not having your Monkey," was the answer.

And now we must see what happened to the Monkey on a Stick.

"What do you imagine will happen next?" asked the Doll of the Monkey,
for they had heard what had been said.

"I don't know," was the answer. "But if we are left alone here in the
room we can get out of the desk and have some fun."

"Oh, so we can!" cried the Doll. "I'm tired of being shut up here. Can
you open the desk, Mr. Monkey?"

"I think so," was the reply.

The Monkey was just going to raise the lid, by prying under it with the
long stick up and down which he climbed, when, all of a sudden, there
was a noise in the room.

"Some one is coming!" whispered the Doll.

"I hear them," said the Monkey. He looked out through the keyhole and
saw a man wading through the water toward the desk. "I guess it's the
night watchman," went on the Monkey in a whisper.

"We don't have a night watchman in school," whispered back the Doll.
"But we have a janitor. Maybe it's the janitor coming."

And so it was. The janitor had shut off some of the water in the broken
pipes, and he was going about from room to room to see how much damage
had been done. He walked up to the desk inside of which the Monkey and
Doll had been placed.

"Well, I do declare!" exclaimed the janitor, and the Monkey and the Doll
heard him. "There's ink running out of the drawer of the teacher's desk!
Ink running out of her desk, and water running out of the broken pipes!
Sure the school had bad luck to-day! But I must see about this ink. It
may spoil everything in the drawer. The bottle must have been upset and
the cork came out when the teacher and children were running around
after the pipes burst."

The Monkey turned away from the keyhole and looked at the bottle of ink.
Surely enough, it lay on its side, and the cork was out. A stream of
black liquid was running out of the bottle, dripping down through a
crack in the teacher's desk.

"Oh, do you suppose you did that?" asked the Doll in a whisper of the
Monkey.

"I--I guess maybe I did," he answered. "After I dipped my tail in the
ink and marked your face, maybe I didn't put the cork back in tightly
enough. And when I jumped around, to see what all the racket was about,
I must have knocked the bottle over."

The janitor opened the lid of the desk, at the same time saying:

"I'd better take the teacher's things out and keep them for her until
morning. What with the ink and water, everything may be spoiled."

A bright light shone in on the Monkey and the Doll when the top of the
desk was opened by the janitor. Of course both the toys kept very still
as soon as the janitor looked at them. This was the rule, as I have told
you in the other books.

It did not take the school janitor long to cork the ink bottle and stop
any more of the black fluid running out.

"Well, well!" said the janitor, looking at the ink-splashed Doll and the
ink-tipped Monkey. "I'll take these two toys home and maybe my little
girl can clean them. Then I'll bring them back to school to-morrow, and
the teacher can give them to whoever owns them. Yes, I'll take the
Monkey and Doll home to my house."

And this the janitor did. He stuffed the Monkey on a Stick, and also
the Cotton Doll, into his pocket, taking care, of course, not to break
them, and then, having cleaned from the room as much of the water as he
could, the janitor went home.

"Look what I've brought you," he said to his little girl, as he took the
Monkey and the Doll out of his pocket on reaching home.

"Oh, aren't they funny!" cried the little girl, dancing up and down.
"May I have them to keep?"

"Gracious me! what is going to happen now?" thought the Monkey on a
Stick.




CHAPTER IV

A QUEER RIDE


"Look out for the ink on the Doll's face," said the janitor to his
little girl, as he handed her the toy. "And see, the Monkey also has ink
on the end of his tail. I brought them home to you, to see if you could
clean them."

"Oh, then I can't keep them!" exclaimed the little girl in a sad voice.
"And they are so cute, too, even if they are covered with ink! How did
it happen?"

"A water pipe burst in the school, and there was so much running around
that an ink bottle in the teacher's desk got upset, I suppose, and then
the ink splashed on the Monkey and the Doll," said the janitor.

"But how did they get in the teacher's desk?" the little girl wanted to
know.

"I guess she must have taken them away from the children who had them
out, playing with them during lesson time," answered the janitor. And he
was right about that, as we know, but he was wrong about the bottle of
ink.

"But perhaps you can clean them," said the janitor to his little girl.
"That's why I brought the toys home to you."

"Yes, I can wash the Doll's face with soap and water," answered the
little girl. "But I don't believe I can get the ink off the Monkey's
tail. He's made of plush, and ink stains that very badly."

Then she got a basin of soap and water and began to wash the Doll's
face. In a little while the ink spots began to fade away, for the
Doll's head was of porcelain, though she was stuffed with cotton.

"It's going to leave the Doll a little darker color, though," said the
little girl to her father. "I can't get her as nice and white as she was
at first."

"Well, never mind, you can pretend she went to the seashore and got
tanned," said the janitor, laughing. "Did you get the ink out of the
Monkey's tail?" he asked.

"No, it won't come out," was the answer, and it would not. The ink on
the tail of the Monkey on a Stick was there to stay, so it seemed.

"There! Just see what happened by your fooling!" said the Doll to the
Monkey a little later, when they were left alone for a few minutes. "My
face will always be dark, and your tail will be inky."

"I don't so much mind about my tail," answered the Monkey. "I think it
will be rather stylish to have it dark and inky on the end. But I am
sorry about your face. I never thought about the ink staying on or I
never would have daubed you the way I did."

"Well, don't feel too bad about it," advised the Doll, with a smile. "I
just happened to remember that it is stylish to be tanned. All the other
dolls and toys will think I have spent a vacation at the seashore, as
the janitor says. Really, after I get used to it, I shall be glad you
put the ink on me."

But the Monkey still felt sorry.

That night the janitor's little girl played with the Monkey on a Stick,
making him do all sorts of funny tricks. He would climb up when she
pulled the string, and sometimes he would just stand up on the top of
his stick, almost as straight as the Bold Tin Soldier.

Then, again, he would turn over backward and slide down head first to
the bottom of the pole. Another time he would tumble forward and slide
down the other way, turning somersaults on the trip.

"Oh, I just love this Monkey!" said the little girl.

In the morning the janitor took back to school in his pocket the Monkey
and the Doll.

"Be sure and bring them to me again, if nobody wants them!" called the
little girl, who had almost got the Doll's face clean.

"I will," her father promised.

The school was all right again the next day. The broken pipes had been
mended, and the boys and girls could come back to their lessons. The
teacher in the room where Herbert, Dick and their friends studied was
much surprised when the janitor gave her the Doll and the Monkey, and
told about finding them in her desk with an upset bottle of ink. He
related how he had taken them home over-night for safe keeping.

"And so your little girl cleaned them," said the teacher. "That was very
good of her, and I am going to make her happy. You may take back to her
this doll, with the make-believe tanned face."

"Are you really going to give my little girl the doll?" asked the
janitor.

"Yes," replied the teacher. "The little girl from whom I took the doll
is not coming back to this school any more, and her mother sent word I
might give the doll away. So I'll give her to your little girl."

"That is very kind of you," said the janitor. "My little girl will be
happy."

The Monkey was put back in the desk until after school. Then Herbert was
called up.

"Here is your Monkey on a Stick, Herbert," said the teacher. "You must
not bring him to school again."

"No'm, I won't!" promised the little boy.

"I am sorry he got that blot of ink on the end of his tail," went on the
teacher.

"Oh, I don't mind," said Herbert, with a smile. "He can climb his stick
just the same."

And the Monkey really could. The ink on his tail didn't bother him a
bit. Up and down the stick he went, when Herbert pulled the string, and
even the teacher had to laugh, the Monkey was so funny.

"I'm so glad I have my Monkey back!" thought Herbert as he ran along the
street.

All the other boys and girls were ahead of him, as he had been kept in
a little while after school to get his toy back. All at once, as Herbert
was passing a candy store, he saw, coming out of it, Dick, the boy who
owned the White Rocking Horse.

"Oh, hello, Herbert!" called Dick, giving his friend a piece of candy.
"So you have your Monkey back!"

"Yes," Herbert answered. "I stayed in to get him."

"I know how we can have some fun with him," went on Dick.

"How?" Herbert wanted to know.

"We can give him a ride on the back of our dog Carlo," went on Dick. "We
can take the Monkey off the stick, and tie him on Carlo's back. Then
Carlo will run and the Monkey will have a fine ride."

The two boys hurried down the street toward Dick's house.

"This world is full of surprises," thought the Monkey. "I wonder what
my toy friends in the store would think if they knew I was going to have
a ride on a dog's back. What a wonderful adventure it may be!"

The Monkey was not afraid. He was a courageous chap, almost as brave as
the Bold Tin Soldier. One has to be brave to climb up and down a stick
day after day, and turn somersaults from the top; I think.

"How can we make my Monkey stay on your Carlo's back?" asked Herbert, as
they reached Dick's house.

"We can tie him on, same as my sister once tied her Sawdust Doll to the
back of the Lamb on Wheels," Dick answered.

"And maybe, some day, we can have a little show," said Herbert.

"What kind of show?" Dick asked, as he ate the last piece of candy he
had bought on his way from school, having shared some with Herbert.

"Oh, a show with my Monkey in it, and your Rocking Horse, and Arnold's
Tin Soldiers, and Mirabell's Lamb and Madeline's Candy Rabbit," Herbert
replied.

"Here, Carlo! Carlo!" called Dick. "Come and give Herbert's Monkey a
ride on your back."

Carlo came running up, wagging his tail. He liked to play with the boys,
and he did not make a bit of fuss when Dick and Herbert tied the Monkey
on his back. Of course the Monkey was taken off his stick for this
strange ride. He was tied on with bits of string, as the boys had plenty
of this in their pockets.

"Hold still a minute, Carlo!" called Dick, for the dog was wiggling and
twisting around. "Hold still and we'll soon be ready."

"How are you going to make him run, after we get the Monkey fastened on
his back?" asked Herbert.

"Oh, that's easy," Dick answered. "We'll just run down the meadow toward
the brook and he'll follow us all right. He'll give the Monkey a fine
ride, won't you, Carlo?"

"Bow wow!" barked the dog, which, I suppose, was his way of saying:
"Yes!"

"Well, I surely hope nothing serious will happen," thought the Monkey,
as he found himself being tied on the dog's fuzzy back. "I have had many
adventures, but never one like this. I hope nothing terrible happens!"

In another minute the boys tied the last knot. There sat the Monkey, off
his stick, on Carlo's back.

"Come on, now!" cried Dick, and he and Herbert started to run.

With a bark Carlo took after them, the Monkey bobbing backward and
forward on the dog's back.

"As long as they can't very well see me, I'll grab hold of the dog's
hair in my hands," said the Monkey. "In that way I can hold on better.
Some of the strings may break."

He clutched his hands tightly in the dog's hair. Carlo ran faster and
faster after the boys.

"Don't go so quick!" begged the Monkey.

"Bow wow! I have to!" barked Carlo.

"Oh, I know something dreadful will happen!" exclaimed the Monkey. "I
just know it!"




CHAPTER V

MONKEYSHINES


Over the green meadow, with the Monkey on his back, ran Carlo the dog.
In front of the dog raced Herbert and Dick, now and then looking back
and laughing. It was great fun for the boys to see the Monkey having a
ride on the dog's back. And, to tell the truth, Carlo and the Monkey
were enjoying it themselves.

"Do I hurt you, holding on this way?" asked the Monkey of Carlo,
grasping tightly the dog's woolly back. "Do I pull your hair any?"

"Oh, not much," Carlo barked in answer. "I don't mind a little pull
like that."

"You see I'm so afraid of falling off and breaking my tail, or something
like that," went on the Monkey.

"Well, you're tied on, so I don't believe you'll fall," replied the dog.
"Those boys are used to tying things. Once they tied Madeline's Candy
Rabbit on the end of a kite tail, and he nearly went to the moon, I
guess."

"Oh, yes, I heard about that," said the Monkey. "Only I heard it was a
star, not the moon."

And then he noticed that he was tied on rather tightly, and he felt
there was not much chance of his falling. So he did not hold so hard to
the dog's back, and Carlo was glad of this.

Herbert and Dick, looking back to see if Carlo was running after them
(which indeed he was) saw the Monkey bobbing to and fro on the dog's
back.

"It looks just as if the Monkey was holding on, doesn't it?" asked Dick
of his chum.

"Yes, it does," admitted Herbert. "Wouldn't it be funny if my Monkey was
_really_ alive, as your dog is, and could ride him whenever he wanted
to?"

"It would be funny," said Dick. "Very funny!"

Pretty soon the boys came to a little brook that ran through the meadow.
They stopped on the edge, and looked down into the water in which tiny
fishes were swimming.

"Shall we jump across the brook and run in the field on the other side?"
asked Dick of Herbert.

"If we do, won't Carlo jump over, too?" asked Herbert. "And if he tries
to jump over, he may fall in and get all wet, and so will my Monkey."

"Carlo won't mind getting wet!" laughed Dick. "But it might not be good
for your Monkey. Perhaps we'd better stay on this side of the brook, and
then everything will be all right."

"I think so, too!" agreed Herbert.

So the two boys did not try to jump over the stream, but waited on the
edge of it for Carlo to catch up to them. Along came the fussy little
dog, barking and yelping, for he did not like to be left very far
behind. And on his back, still bobbing about, was the Monkey on a Stick.
No, I am wrong. The Monkey was not on his Stick just then. Herbert had
taken him off to give him a ride. It was easy to take the Monkey off his
Stick and put him back on.

Up ran Carlo; and as soon as he saw the brook full of water what did
that little dog do but start to run right into it!

"Oh, look out! Stop him!" cried Herbert. "He'll get my Monkey all wet
and spoil him!"

"Come back, Carlo! Come back!" ordered Dick, making a jump toward his
pet.

But Carlo had no idea of going too deep into the brook. He just wanted
to get a drink. So he waded in only a little way, stopping just before
the dangling feet of the Monkey would have got wet.

"Oh, I guess he isn't going to roll in the water," said Dick. "Sometimes
he does that--just rolls right over in it like a fish."

"If he did that now, with my Monkey on his back, he'd spoil him," said
Herbert. "I'm glad he didn't."

Carlo lapped the cool water up with his red tongue, and then he waded
out of the brook and toward the boys. He seemed to be asking them:

"What shall we do next? That was fun--giving the Monkey a ride. But what
shall we do next?"

"I know what we can do," said Dick to Herbert, after they had sailed
some little make-believe ships in the brook, while Carlo lay in the
grass on the bank. "We can take your Monkey and my dog down the street.
People will see him and laugh. Shall we do that?"

"Oh, yes. Let's do it!" exclaimed Herbert.

Once more the boys started to run across the meadow, and Carlo, seeing
them go, and not wanting to be left behind, started after them with a
"bow-wow." The Monkey was still on his back.

The two boys were almost across the meadow, and were thinking what fun
it would be to see the dog going down the street, giving the Monkey a
ride, when, all of a sudden, Carlo saw a cat.

Now you know what dogs do when they see cats. They chase them, just for
fun, you understand. And this is what Carlo did--he raced after this cat
as fast as he could go.

"Carlo!" chattered the Monkey.

Now, somehow or other, the strings by which the boys had fastened the
Monkey on the back of the dog had become loosened. One knot after
another came undone, and the Monkey felt himself slipping.

"Oh, wait a minute! Wait a minute, Carlo!" cried the Monkey, for he
could talk now, being out of hearing of the boys. "Wait! Wait!" cried
the Monkey. "I am falling off!"

"I can't wait!" barked Carlo. "I must get that cat!"

On he ran, faster than before. Dick and Herbert saw him, and Dick cried:

"Oh, look at my dog chasing a cat. Let's see if he gets her."

So they ran after the dog.

Faster and faster went Carlo, and the strings that held the Monkey on
became looser and looser until, at last, they slipped off altogether,
and down fell the Monkey into the grass.

The grass was tall and thick, and at the moment when the Monkey fell
Dick and Herbert were down in a sort of little valley, and they did not
see what had happened. So the Monkey fell off the dog's back before they
noticed it.

As for Carlo, all he was thinking of was getting the cat. And the boys
went after him.

On all sides of the Monkey was green grass, nice and soft. A little
farther off were some trees. The Monkey could see them as he looked over
the top of the grass.

"I wish I could climb one of those trees," said the toy Monkey half
aloud. "I've been climbing up and down a stick so long that I am rather
tired of it. I think I ought to climb trees."

The Monkey was beginning to feel strange. It was the first time he had
ever been by himself, alone in a green field, with the warm sun shining
on him.

"I feel just like doing something!" said the Monkey, speaking out loud
this time, though he could see no one to whom he might talk. "I'm going
to cut up! Hi yi!" he shouted. "I'm going to jump and turn somersaults
and everything."

And with that he began leaping about on the soft, green grass. He
jumped this way and that. He jumped forward and backward and he turned
front somersaults and backward somersaults.

Then, all of a sudden, a voice called, saying:

"What in the world are you doing, my friend?"

The Monkey stopped short, and flipped his tail from side to side.

"Well, I don't see you, and I don't know who you are," he said, "but if
you want to know what I'm doing, I'm cutting up Monkeyshines! That's
what I'm doing! Cutting up Monkeyshines!"




CHAPTER VI

IN A CAVE


Out from under a large, green leaf, underneath which he had been
sitting, crawled a long green creature. The green creature looked at the
brown Monkey, who, after jumping about, sat down on a little hummock of
grass to rest.

"What did you say you were doing?" asked the bug.

"Cutting up Monkeyshines," was the answer. "We Monkeys, whether we are
toys or not, call our fun 'Monkeyshines,' and I thought I'd cut up a few
while I was here by myself. I didn't know you minded."

"Oh, bless you, I don't mind," said the green creature. "I like to watch
you. It is fun. You are quite a jumper, and I am something of a jumper
myself."

"Who are you?" asked the Monkey.

"I'm a Grasshopper," was the answer. "I live here in this green meadow
and sing songs all day long."

"I am glad to meet you, Mr. Grasshopper," said the Monkey. "Singing
songs must be nice."

So the Monkey and the Grasshopper sat there talking together. The Monkey
told the different things that had happened to him from the time he had
awakened in a box on the breakfast table until he fell off Carlo's back.

"Do you have any adventures here in the meadow?" asked the chap who had
been cutting up Monkeyshines.

"Oh, yes, we have had things happen here," said the Grasshopper. "Of
course they are not as exciting as those you have told me about. But we
rather like them. Do you want to----"

But just then something began running through the tall grass a short
distance away from where the Monkey sat on a hummock. At first the
Monkey thought it was Carlo, the dog, coming back, but in another moment
he saw a pink nose and two long, flapping ears.

He knew then it was not Carlo, but he thought it was another friend of
his, so the Monkey called:

"I say! Hold on there a minute! I want to talk to you, my friend! Wait,
can't you?"

"Who is it?" asked the Grasshopper, stretching out one long hind leg.
"Who do you see?"

"My friend, the Candy Rabbit," was the answer. "He just ran through the
grass."

"That isn't a Candy Rabbit," said the Grasshopper.

"Who is it, then?" asked the Monkey, in surprise.

"That's Jack Hare, a real, live rabbit who lives in the meadow here,"
was the reply. "He wouldn't like it if you called him a Candy Rabbit."

The grass waved to and fro, and a moment later a big, white rabbit came
jumping through, and sat down on his hind legs near the big leaf on
which the Grasshopper was perched. The Monkey could see that this rabbit
was different from the one made of candy. This bunny was larger, and his
nose was not so pink. His ears, too, were bigger.

"Hello, who's your friend, Mr. Grasshopper?" asked Jack Hare.

"He is a stranger in our meadow," was the answer. "I just met him. He
was cutting up some--er--polishes, I think he said."

"Shines! Shines! Monkeyshines, not polishes, though they are somewhat
alike," explained the Monkey. "I cut some Monkeyshines after I fell off
a dog's back."

"A dog! Good gracious! Don't tell me there's a _dog_ around here!"
exclaimed Jack Hare, looking quickly over his shoulder. "A dog will
chase me as soon as he will a cat. I guess I'd better be going."

"Oh, don't be afraid," said the Monkey. "The dog I mean is Carlo. He is
chasing a cat now, and so he won't come here."

The Grasshopper and the Live Rabbit sat looking at the Monkey. Soon,
from under another leaf, came hopping a black bug not quite as large as
the green one. The black bug wiggled her legs and chirped cheerfully:

"Well, well! Whom have we here?"

"Oh, this is Mr. Monkey Shine," said the Grasshopper. "Allow me to
introduce you to Mr. Monkey Shine, Miss Cricket!" and the green creature
nodded from one to the other.

"Excuse me, I am Monkey on a Stick, not Monkey Shine, though I do cut up
shines once in a while," said the jolly chap who had fallen off Carlo's
back. "That is my right name--Monkey on a Stick."

"I'm pleased to meet you," chirped the Cricket. "Welcome to our meadow,
Monkey on a Stick."

"Thank you," replied the Monkey.

Then the Grasshopper, the Live Rabbit and the Cricket sat and looked at
the Monkey, and, after a while, he cut some more Monkeyshines for them,
even standing on his head and waving his tail in the air.

"I wonder if I could do that," said Jack Hare. "I'm going to try."

"Better not," warned the Monkey. "In turning over you might break off
your ears."

"Oh, my ears are not made of candy. They will bend, and not break," said
Jack Hare. "Here goes! I'm going to turn a somersault just as you did.
Maybe I can cut some Monkeyshines, too!"

Well, the Live Rabbit tried, but I can not say that he did it very well.
First he fell over to one side, and then he fell to the other side. And
once he got stuck in the middle, standing on his head with his ears
lying flat along the ground and his legs sticking up in the air.

"Go on over! Why don't you turn all the way over?" asked the
Grasshopper.

[Illustration: Monkey Does Some "Monkey Shines."
_Page 65_]

"I--I can't!" answered the Live Rabbit. "I seem to be stuck half way! If
one of you would be so kind as to give me a push, or a pull, I might
finish my somersault. Come on, help me!"

"I'll help you," kindly said the Monkey. He took hold of the Live
Rabbit's hind legs and gave him a push. Over went Jack Hare, finishing
his somersault, though not doing it very well.

The Live Rabbit thanked the Monkey on a Stick for what he had done and
then said:

"Since you have come to our meadow would you not like to visit my
house?"

"Where do you live?" asked the Monkey.

"In a burrow, or underground house, called a cave," answered the Rabbit.
"Perhaps you may not like it, but we Bunnies think it rather nice. Will
you come to my cave, and visit the other Rabbits?"

"I should love to," said the Monkey. "But you see I belong to a little
boy named Herbert. He got me for a birthday present, and he and Dick
tied me on the dog's back. I fell off and the two boys may come back
here to look for me. If I should go to your cave they might come here,
and, not finding me, might think I had left them forever. I like
Herbert, and as his friends have some of the other toys with whom I used
to live in the store, I want to stay with him."

"That is easily managed," said the Grasshopper. "You go and visit Jack
Hare's cave, Mr. Monkey. Miss Cricket and I will stay here, and if we
see the boys and the dog coming back, looking for you, we'll hop over
and tell you."

So it was planned that the Monkey should visit the Rabbit's cave, and
if by any chance, Herbert and Dick came back, the Grasshopper and
Cricket would bring word to the Monkey, who could quickly hop back.

"Come along, Mr. Monkey," called the Rabbit, and soon the two new
friends were jumping through the grass together. The Monkey was off his
stick, and so he could get along quite well, though not quite so fast as
Jack Hare. But the Rabbit took short jumps and did not get too far
ahead, waiting for the Monkey to catch up to him.

"Here we are at my cave," said Jack Hare at length, stopping in front of
a hole in the ground.

"Oh, so this is where you live, is it?" asked the Monkey. He had hopped
across the green meadow through the grass after his new friend.

"Yes, we'll go down in now, and meet Mrs. Hare and the children," went
on the Live Rabbit. "Mind your step, and don't fall. It's rather steep
until you get inside."

"And it's dark, too," said the Monkey, following the Rabbit down the
hole into the ground. "How in the world do you see?"

"Oh, I forgot you aren't like us animals, and can not see quite so well
in the dark," said the Live Rabbit. "Just a moment, I'll turn on the
lamps."

He stopped and gave three thumps with, his feet on the earthen sides of
the cave. Instantly a soft glow shone all around, and the Monkey could
see very well indeed.

"Do you have electric lights?" he asked in surprise.

"No. These are lightning bugs," was the Rabbit's answer. "I keep them
to make the place bright when strangers come. We Rabbits don't need
light ourselves, for we can see in the dark."

"Some of the toys can, also," said the Monkey. "But I am not very good
at that sort of thing yet. I like light. We had gas and electricity at
the toy store."

The Monkey followed the Live Rabbit on down through the winding burrow.
It twisted and turned, this way and that, now to the right and now to
the left. Here and there, clinging to the earthen sides, were lightning
bugs, which made the place so bright that the Monkey did not stumble
once.

"But why does it twist and turn so, like a corkscrew?" the Monkey asked
the Rabbit.

"We always build our burrow caves like this, to keep out dogs and other
enemies," was the reply. "My real home is still a little farther on.
We'll be there in a moment."

The Monkey followed on, and soon came to a place where, seated about a
table made from a piece of a flat stump, were several little Rabbit
children and a lady Rabbit.

"This is my family," said the Live Rabbit. "Mrs. Hare, allow me to
present Mr. Monkey on a Stick, who has come to pay us a visit."

"Pleased to meet you," said Mrs. Rabbit, bowing low.

"Hi, Daddy!" called one of the little Rabbits, "where's his stick?"

And then everybody laughed.




CHAPTER VII

OUT IN THE RAIN


"Please excuse little Johnnie Hare," said Mrs. Hare to the Monkey. "He
didn't mean to be impolite, asking for your stick."

"Oh, I know," said the Monkey. "He's just like all children--they just
ask what they want to know about. And I suppose it does seem funny to be
a Monkey on a Stick and then not have your stick with you. But I can
tell you where my stick is, Johnnie," said the Monkey to the little
Rabbit chap, and then he related his adventure on Carlo's back.

"Oh! Oh! Oh!" said all the other little Rabbits, opening wide their
eyes when they heard this story. "Tell us another, please!"

"We are just going to have dinner," said Mrs. Hare. "Won't you sit down,
Mr. Monkey on a Stick, and take something? We have some nice carrots and
turnips."

"Thank you, I'll take a little," said the Monkey.

A little chair, made from a piece of wood gnawed out by Mr. Jack Hare,
was brought up for the Monkey to sit on, and then the Rabbit family and
the visitor gathered around the table and began eating. I can not say
that the little Rabbit children ate much, for they turned around so
often to look at Mr. Monkey, that, half the time, they missed putting
things in their mouths and dropped them on the table.

But no one minded this, and every one laughed, so there was a most jolly
good time. The lightning bugs kept on glowing, so it was not at all dark
in the cave, though it would have been only for these fireflies. Mr. and
Mrs. Hare had many questions to ask Mr. Monkey on a Stick about his
adventures, and he told them of the Calico Clown, the Sawdust Doll and
others from the toy store, including the Candy Rabbit.

"Just fancy!" exclaimed Mrs. Hare. "A Rabbit made of candy! I'm glad
you're not that kind, Jack."

"So am I," said her husband. "I'd be afraid, every time I jumped, that
I'd break a leg or an ear, if I were made of candy."

"Now I must show you our cave house," said Mrs. Hare, when the meal was
finished. "We think it is very nice."

"I'm sure it is," returned the Monkey.

So he was taken about, and he looked at the different burrows, or rooms,
in the cave house of Mr. Jack Hare. There were rooms for the children
Rabbits and rooms for Mr. and Mrs. Hare. In each room were lightning
bugs to give light, though as Mr. Hare said, they were needed only when
company came that could not see well in the dark.

"We put out every light when Mr. Mole comes," said Mrs. Hare.

"Why is that?" asked the Monkey.

"Because he has no eyes, and doesn't need to see," was the answer. "He
just feels and noses his way around. All darkness is the same to him."

"Dear me! Well, I like a little light," said the Monkey. "But I think
now, since I have been here quite a while, that I had better go back.
Herbert and Dick might be walking over the meadow, looking for me, for
they know which way Carlo ran, with me on his back, and they often find
things that are lost--those boys do."

"Oh, stay just a little longer," urged Mrs. Hare.

"And tell us another story!" begged Johnnie Hare.

"Well, I will," said the Monkey, and he did. He told about some of the
funny things that had happened in the toy store--things I have told you
children about in the other books. And the bunny boys and girls liked
the story told by the Monkey on a Stick very much indeed.

The Monkey enjoyed himself so much in the cave house of Mr. Jack Hare
that he stayed longer than he intended. It was along in the middle of
the afternoon before he came out, and as the Monkey and Mr. Hare reached
the outer opening of the burrow the rabbit gentleman knocked on the
ground three times with his hind feet.

"What's that for?" asked the Monkey.

"To turn off the lightning bugs," was the answer. "No use burning lights
when no one needs them. I'll turn them on if you call again."

"Thank you, I shall be glad to pay you another visit," said the Monkey.
"But just now I feel that I must get back to where you first saw me. I
want to ask the Grasshopper or Miss Cricket if they have seen the boys
or the dog."

"Well, if you'll excuse me, I think I'll not go back with you," said the
Rabbit. "I am not fond of dogs, and they are altogether too fond of me.
Good-bye!"

Then he hopped away, waving his paw at the Monkey, and the Monkey jumped
through the grass to the place where he had fallen from the dog's back.

There he found Mr. Grasshopper and Miss Cricket. They were eating some
of the green things that grew all around them.

"Have you seen anything of my friends?" asked the Monkey, as he hopped
up and sat on the hummock of grass where he had been resting after
cutting up his Monkeyshines.

"No, neither the boys nor the dog have been here," said the Grasshopper.

"But I heard a dog barking," said Miss Cricket. "It may have been the
Carlo you spoke about."

"And I heard some boys talking," went on the Grasshopper. "They may have
been Dick and Herbert. But they did not come here. Why don't you jump
along until you find them?"

"Yes, I suppose I could do that," agreed the Monkey. "But I'll wait a
little while, and, if they don't come for me, I'll see if I can find
them. As soon as I see them, though, I shall have to stop, and not move.
We toys are not allowed to move or talk as long as human eyes see us."

"That's a funny rule," said Miss Cricket. "But then you are a funny
fellow, Mr. Monkey on a Stick."

"If you think I'm funny, you ought to see my friend, the Calico Clown,"
said the Monkey. "He's full of jokes and riddles. He has a queer one
about a pig making a noise under a gate."

"My goodness! why did he do that?" asked the Grasshopper.

"Do what?" inquired the Monkey.

"Why did the pig make a noise under the gate?" the Grasshopper wanted to
know. "Why couldn't he stay in his pen where he belonged, or in the
barnyard?"

"That's what the riddle's about, I suppose," said the Monkey. "Anyhow,
none of us can answer, and the Clown's always asking it. If you want to
see some one really funny, meet the Calico Clown."

After a little more talk among the three friends, the Monkey said he
thought he would hop along and see if he could find the two boys or the
dog.

"Aren't you afraid, if you find the dog alone, he may bite you?" asked
the Grasshopper.

"Oh, my, no!" exclaimed the Monkey. "Carlo is a friend of mine. If he
found me he would take me home to Herbert's house. I had even rather
find him than the boys, for I can talk to the dog, and I can't talk to
Dick and Herbert."

"Well, we wish you luck," chirped the Cricket, and the Grasshopper did
also.

Away hopped the Monkey, making his journey through the tall grass of
the green meadow. The grass was rather high, and he could not see very
well. But he looked the best he could on every side, and, every now and
then, he stopped to listen.

He wanted to hear the barking of Carlo or the shouts of Dick and
Herbert, who, as he guessed, were, even then, looking for him. But the
boys looked in the wrong place, and, as it happened, the Monkey jumped
in the wrong direction.

The only creatures the Monkey met were bugs and beetles, butterflies and
birds, grasshoppers and crickets in the grass. They all spoke to him
kindly, and though some of them said they had seen or heard the boys and
the dog, none seemed able to tell the Monkey how to find his friends.

"And it is getting late, too," said the Monkey to himself, as he looked
up at the sky. "Soon the sun will set, and it will be dark. And then it
will be so much the harder for me to find Dick and Herbert and Carlo, or
for them to find me. Well, I suppose I must make the best of it."

He was a plucky Monkey chap, almost as adventurous as the Bold Tin
Soldier, and he kept jumping on through the tall grass of the meadow.
All at once, as he skipped along, being able to move quite fast now that
he was off his stick, the Monkey stumbled over a stone and fell flat
down.

"Ouch!" he cried, as he picked himself up. "I hope I haven't broken
anything."

Very luckily he had not. He was as good as ever, except that his plush
fur was rumpled a bit. But he soon brushed himself smooth again, and he
was about to hop on, when, all at once, he felt a splash of water on his
head.

"Dear me! is some one squirting water at me from a toy rubber ball or a
water pistol?" exclaimed the Monkey.

More drops splashed down, dozens and dozens of them. Then the Monkey
looked up and cried:

"Oh, it's raining! It's pouring! I'll be soaking wet! I'll be drowned
out in the rain without an umbrella or rubbers! Oh, my!"

And the rain came down harder and harder and _harder_.




CHAPTER VIII

HERBERT FINDS THE MONKEY


Poor Monkey on a Stick! Oh, I forgot! He wasn't on a stick now, was he?
Herbert had the stick, and it was just as well he had, for the Monkey,
being rid of it, could hop around better.

"And I need to hop around a lot, to keep out of the wet," said the
Monkey to himself, after he had come from the Rabbit's cave and had been
caught in the rain.

Harder and harder the big drops came pelting down. At first the Monkey
tried to keep dry by crawling under the grass. But, thick and tall as it
was, it was not like an umbrella, and the drops came through. Soon the
Monkey was very wet.

"I know I'll catch cold!" he said sorrowfully. "I'll get the snuffles!
I'm not used to being soaked like this."

And, truly, he was not. Since he had been made at the workshop of Santa
Claus, the Monkey had never been out in a rain storm. He had always been
either in the toy factory, the department store, or in some house, and
when he was taken from one place to another he was always well wrapped
up, so it did not matter whether there was snow or rain.

But now it was different. The Monkey was getting wetter and wetter each
minute.

"It's the first time I've been in so much water since the janitor's
little girl tried to wash the ink spot off the end of my tail," the
Monkey said.

Just then he heard a voice calling:

"Come over here, Mr. Monkey! Over this way, and you can stand under this
big leaf, which is like an umbrella!"

"Hello! Who are you?" asked the Monkey, looking around, but seeing no
one. By this time he had crossed the green meadow and was near a little
clump of trees.

"I am Jack in the Pulpit," was the answer. "I live on the edge of the
woods. There are big fern leaves here under which you can be safe from
the rain. Hop over!"

So the Monkey hopped through the wet grass until he came close to the
trees in the woods. Then the voice called again:

"Straight ahead now, and you'll see me!"

The Monkey looked, and saw a queer little thin green chap, standing up
in the middle of a sort of brown, striped leaf that curled over his
head, just as in some churches the pulpit curls down over the preacher's
head.

"Who did you say you were?" asked the Monkey.

"I am Jack in the Pulpit," was the answer. "Some folks call me a plant,
and others a flower. They don't know I am really alive, and can come to
life as you toys do. I saw you getting wet, so I called to you. Get
under one of these big, broad fern leaves, and it will keep the rain off
as well as an umbrella."

Jack in the Pulpit nodded toward a big fern leaf near where he himself
was growing, and in an instant the Monkey had crawled under this
shelter. Truly enough it kept off the rain, the drops pattering down on
the leaf over the Monkey's head as they used to patter on the roof of
the toy store. No longer was he out in the rain.

"Thank you for telling me how to keep out of the wet," said the Monkey
to Jack in the Pulpit.

"Oh, you are very welcome," was the answer. "And now please tell me
about yourself and whether you have had any adventures. I love to hear
about adventures."

So the Monkey told all about himself, even down to the time when he fell
off Carlo's back and visited the cave of Jack Hare.

"And I suppose Herbert is looking for me now," said the Monkey.

"Oh, I hardly think he would be looking for you in all this rain," said
Jack in the Pulpit. "Besides it will soon be night. You had better make
up your mind to stay here until morning. Then the sun will be shining
and you can hop back to the place where you fell off the dog's back.
Then Herbert and Dick may come along and find you."

"That's what I'll do," said the Monkey.

Just as the Jack had said it would, it soon became dark, and it kept on
raining. But the Monkey curled up under the big fern leaf, where it was
nice and dry. Soon the Monkey began to feel warm and sleepy, and, before
he knew it, he was fast asleep.

In the morning the rain had stopped. The sun came out bright and warm
and dried up the damp grass. Jack in the Pulpit awoke, and, looking over
toward the Monkey, fast asleep under the broad leaf, called:

"Hi, there, Mr. Monkey! It's morning! Now maybe you can find Herbert, or
he can find you!"

"Dear me! Morning so soon?" exclaimed the Monkey, stretching out his
legs. "I must have slept very soundly."

"Did you dream any?" asked the Jack.

"Not that I remember," was the answer. "But I am glad the rain has
stopped. Now I'll hop over the meadow, back to the place where I fell
off Carlo's back, and I'll wait there until Herbert comes for me, as I
am sure he will."

"I shall be sorry to see you go," said Jack, "but I suppose it has to
be. If you ever get back this way again, stop and see me."

The Monkey said he would and then, smoothing down his plush, he sat out
in the sun awhile to get a little dryer and warmer. He looked at the end
of his tail.

"The ink is almost washed off," he said. "I am glad of that."

Then he began to hop across the field, making his way through the tall
grass. He thought he would know it when he came to the place where the
string had come loose, and where he had fallen from Carlo's back, but
the grass looked so much alike all over that the Monkey was beginning to
think he might be lost in it.

All at once, however, he heard a voice saying:

"Well, you've come back, have you?"

The Monkey looked around, and there sat his friend Mr. Grasshopper, and
near him was Miss Cricket.

"Oh, I'm so glad to see you!" cried the Monkey. "I was looking for the
place I first met you--the place where I fell off the dog's back."

"It is right here," said the Grasshopper. "This is where I first noticed
you. And there is the hummock of grass you sat on."

Then the Monkey knew he was back at the place he wished to reach. He sat
down and talked with the Grasshopper and the Cricket, telling them of
his visit to Jack Hare's cave, and also how he had slept all night under
a leaf near Jack in the Pulpit.

"Hark!" suddenly called the Grasshopper.

"What's the matter?" asked the Monkey.

"I think you are going to get your wish," was the Grasshopper's answer.
"I hear boys talking and a dog barking. We had better be going, Miss
Cricket. Good-bye, Mr. Monkey on a Stick!"

"Good-bye," called the Cricket.

With that they hopped away. The Monkey listened, and, surely enough, he
heard the barking of a dog and the talking of two boys.

"It was right about here he must have fallen off," said one boy.

"It might have been farther on," said another boy.

And just then the grass began to wave from side to side, and through it
came bursting Carlo, the little dog! At once he saw the Monkey.

"Bow wow! Oh, here you are!" barked Carlo. "I thought I should find
you."

"I'm glad you did," said the Monkey. Then the two friends had no further
chance to talk, for Dick and his chum came running along when they heard
the dog bark.

"Oh, here he is!" cried Herbert. "I've found my lost Monkey. Now I'm
going to put him back on his stick!"




CHAPTER IX

MONKEY IN A TENT


Herbert and Dick, with Carlo the dog, had searched through the meadow
all the afternoon, to find the Monkey, but they did not find him. At
night the two boys had gone to their homes, and Herbert felt sad at
losing his toy.

"Never mind," said Madeline, as she let Herbert hold her Candy Rabbit,
"to-morrow I'll help you look for your Monkey. Maybe he's hiding down in
the tall grass, as Dorothy's Sawdust Doll once did."

"Maybe," said Herbert hopefully. But still he felt sad.

The next day he and Dick and Carlo again went to the meadow. They looked
all around, and at last they found the Monkey, as I have told you.

Of course neither of the boys knew what an adventure the Monkey had had,
nor how he had gone to visit Jack Hare in the cave, and had seen the
little Rabbits. Nor did they know how he had become dried out by
sleeping under the fern leaf.

"Well, now we'll have some fun, as long as I have my Monkey back," said
Herbert, and he and Dick, followed by the dog, went back across the
meadow.

"What are you going to do?" asked Dick.

"Put up a tent and have a show," Herbert answered. "You can bring your
White Rocking Horse, and Arnold can bring his Bold Tin Soldier. If
Dorothy wants to, she can bring her Sawdust Doll, Mirabell can bring
her Lamb of Wheels, and my sister Madeline can bring her Candy Rabbit."

"That'll be a fine show!" cried Dick.

The two little boys hurried back to Herbert's house, and told his mother
what they were going to do. Herbert showed his mother the Monkey he had
found in the meadow, and Dick hurried over to his house to get his
Rocking Horse, and to tell his sister about the show.

"What can I make a tent of?" asked Herbert.

"Oh, I think I can let you take some old sheets," said his mother, "and
you can hang them over the clothesline in the yard. That will make a
nice little tent for your show."

"Yes, that will be fine," said Herbert. "Thank you, Mother."

He carried his Monkey into the house and put him on a table, where
Madeline was sitting, playing with her Candy Rabbit.

"Watch my Monkey so he doesn't jump away, will you, please?" asked
Herbert of his sister, laughing and pretending his toy was alive.

"What are you going to do?" asked Madeline.

"Make a tent to have a show," answered her brother.

"Oh, let me help!" she cried, and she set her Candy Rabbit down on the
table near the Monkey and ran out with Herbert. Mother gave the children
the sheet, and in a little while the sheet tent was being put up in the
yard over the clothesline.

[Illustration: Monkey Thanks Jack in the Pulpit.
_Page 89_]

As soon as the Candy Rabbit and Monkey found themselves alone they
looked at one another and began to talk, as they were allowed to do.

"Where in the world have you been?" asked the Candy Rabbit.

"You may well ask that," replied the Monkey. "I have had _so_ many
adventures, and I met some friends of yours."

"Friends of mine?" repeated the Candy Rabbit. "Do you mean the Lamb on
Wheels or the Bold Tin Soldier?"

"Neither one. I mean Live Rabbits," answered the Monkey. Then he told of
going to the cave of Jack Hare and of being caught in the rain storm.

"Oh, what wonderful adventures!" exclaimed the Candy Rabbit.

"What happened to you while I was away?" asked the Monkey.

"Oh, many things," answered the Candy Rabbit. "Once Madeline left me
alone, and the cat came in and began to lick the sugar off my pink
nose. Another time a little mouse came out of a hole in the closet where
I am kept at night, and nibbled a few crumbs of sweetness off the end of
my stubby tail."

"Gracious!" cried the Monkey. "Weren't you scared?"

"A little," answered the Rabbit. "But I jumped to one side, and when
Madeline opened the closet door the mouse ran away."

All the while the Monkey and Candy Rabbit were talking, Herbert, Dick
and Arnold, with Madeline, Dorothy and Mirabell to help, were putting up
the sheet tent in Herbert's yard. The clothesline was pulled tight
between two posts and the sheets put over the line. The edges were
fastened to the ground with wooden rings, and then some pieces of cloth
were pinned to the back of the sheet to close that end. It took two or
three days to make the tent, but at last it was finished.

"We'll leave one end open for the front door," said Herbert.

"But if we do that everybody can look in and see our show for nothing,"
objected Dick. "That isn't right. They ought to give one pin, or two
pins, to come to see our show."

"We can pin some pieces of cloth at the front end of the tent,"
suggested Mirabell. "I have an old shawl over at my house that Mother
lets me spread on the grass when I play with my Lamb on Wheels. I'll get
that to close the front of the tent."

The old shawl was just what was needed to make a front "door" for the
show tent, and soon it was pinned in place. Some old boxes were found by
Patrick, the kind gardener, and these were to be used for seats.

"Now we'd better all go and get our things that are going to be in the
show," said Herbert. "I'll bring out my Monkey."

"And I'll get my Candy Rabbit," offered Madeline.

"I'll have to have somebody help me carry over my Tin Soldier Captain
and all the men," said Arnold. "I don't want to drop any of 'em."

"I'll help you, as soon as I bring out my Monkey," offered Herbert.

"And I'd like somebody to help me carry over my Lamb," said Mirabell.

"I'll help you," said Dick. "I'll bring over my White Rocking Horse and
your Lamb, Mirabell."

So, as it happened, Herbert's Monkey and Madeline's Candy Rabbit were
the first of the toy friends to be brought into the tent. The Monkey
was on his stick, as Herbert was going to make him do tricks by climbing
up to the top of it, and turning somersaults, as it was intended for the
Monkey to do.

"Do you think my Rabbit and your Monkey will be all right if we leave
them here alone in the tent?" asked Madeline, as the toys were put down
on one of the boxes, and she and her brother started to help the other
children carry in their things.

"Oh yes, they'll be all right," said Herbert.

But he and Madeline had not been very long away, and the Monkey and
Candy Rabbit had not been very long alone in the tent, before something
happened.

All at once, just as the Monkey was thinking of asking the Candy Rabbit
what tricks that sweet chap was going to do in the show, a loud noise
was heard in the tent.

"Baa-a-a-a-!" was what the Rabbit and the Monkey heard.

"Was that you?" asked the Monkey of the Rabbit.

"I was just going to ask if you had called," said the Rabbit.

"Baa-a-a-a-a!" came again.

"It sounds like the Lamb on Wheels," said the Candy Rabbit.

"Oh, it can't be," said the Monkey. "She'd come in to see us. Who do you
suppose it is?"

"Baa-a-a-a-a!" sounded again, and then a funny black nose, followed by a
head with curving horns on it, was thrust into the tent.

"This isn't the Lamb!" cried the Monkey.

"Indeed I'm not a Lamb!" was the answer. "I'm a Billy Goat! Baa-a!
Baa-a-a-a! What's going on here?" he bleated.

"We're going to have a show," said the Monkey. "I am going to be in it,
and so is the Candy Rabbit."

"Oh, no, the Candy Rabbit isn't!" said the Goat. "He isn't going to be
in the show. He's going to be in _me_, for I am going to eat him! I am
very fond of candy, and I've been looking for some for a long time. I
wondered what was in this tent, and now I know. I saw it from over in
the vacant lots where I live. Then I came over to peep in, when I saw
that the boys and girls had gone. Yes, indeed! I like sugar, and I'm
going to eat the Candy Rabbit!"

The bad Goat, with his sharp horns, walked into the tent and over toward
the box on which the Candy Rabbit sat near the Monkey on a Stick.

"Oh, yum-yum! How I love candy!" bleated the goat, wiggling his whiskers
and smacking his lips. "How I love sugar! I'm going to nibble some
sweetness off the ears of the Candy Rabbit."

"Oh, no you're not!" suddenly cried the Monkey.

"Why not? Who will stop me?" asked the bad Goat, stamping his foot.

"I will!" cried the brave Monkey on a Stick. "Here! You get out of this
tent!" and the Monkey stood straight up on his stick and looked with
both eyes at the goat.

[Illustration: Monkey Protects Candy Rabbit.
_Page 106_]




CHAPTER X

MONKEY IN A SHOW


The bad Goat walked closer and closer to the Candy Rabbit. And that poor
Bunny toy was so frightened that he did not think of jumping out of the
way.

"I'm going to get sweetness off your ears," said the Goat, teasing.

"Oh, if you bite my ears I can't be in the show!" said the poor Rabbit.

The Monkey climbed higher and higher on his stick, after he had said he
would stop the Goat from eating the Candy Rabbit. And now, just as the
Goat was going to take the Bunny up from the box, the Monkey suddenly
gave a jump! Oh, such a jump!

Off his stick he jumped, and he landed right on the Goat's back. With
his hands the Monkey began to pull the Goat's hair.

He even reached around and pulled the Goat's whiskers, the Monkey did.

"Baa-a-a-a-a!" bleated the Goat. "Stop, Monkey! You're hurting me!
You're pulling my hair!"

"Then get out of this tent and leave the Candy Rabbit alone!" shouted
the Monkey.

"No! I want sweet stuff!" bleated the bad Goat.

Then the Monkey jumped off the Goat's back, and, catching up the stick,
on which he climbed to the top when the string was pulled, the Monkey
began hitting the Goat over the nose with it.

"Oh, my nose! My soft and tender nose!" bleated the Goat, as he ran out
of the tent.

"Thank you, so much, for saving me," said the Rabbit to the Monkey, as
the likely chap climbed back on his stick.

"I am very glad I could help you," said the Monkey. "I guess that Goat
won't come back in a hurry!"

And as the Groat ran out of the tent, the children, bringing up their
other toys to have the show, saw him.

"Oh, look at the big sheep!" cried Madeline.

"That isn't a sheep, it's a goat," said her brother.

"Oh, maybe he ate my Candy Rabbit!" cried the little girl. "I must go
and look."

She and the other children hurried into the tent. There were the Monkey
and the Rabbit safe together. But the children did not know what a
narrow escape the Rabbit had had.

By this time Arnold, with the help of the other boys, had brought over
his Bold Tin Soldier and the other men in the army company; Dick had
brought his White Rocking Horse; and Dorothy's Sawdust Doll and
Mirabell's Lamb on Wheels were also in the tent. Of course Herbert's
Monkey and Madeline's Candy Rabbit were the first to be in the show.

"Now the performance is going to start!" cried Herbert, when the
brothers and sisters were seated on the benches, which were made from
the boxes Patrick, the gardener, had given Dick. "The show is going to
start! All ready!"

Besides the six children mentioned there were others who lived on the
same street with these six friends. These children had all come to the
show. The boys and girls brought two pins to get in. Those who brought
toy animals to act in the show did not have to bring any pins to come
in.

"The first act in the show!" called Herbert, who was the ringmaster,
"will be Mr. Dick riding on his White Rocking Horse! Ladies and
Gentlemen, see Mr. Dick!"

"Hurray! Hurray! Hurray!" cried the children, clapping their hands.

Dick drew his horse out into the middle of the tent. Of course if the
Rocking Horse had been there alone he could have trotted out by himself.
But, as it was, Dick had to drag him.

Then Dick climbed on the back of his white steed, took hold of the
reins, and cried: "Gid-dap!"

Back and forth rocked Dick on his Horse, and, as I have told you in the
book about this toy, the Horse could move along whenever any one was on
his back. He moved just as a rocking chair moves.

Across the middle of the tent rode Dick on his Rocking Horse. The little
chap pretended he was a cowboy, and swung his cap around his head, and
he even made believe lasso wild bulls with a piece of clothesline.

"Bang! Bang!" cried Dick, shooting make-believe pistols the way real
cowboys do.

"Hurray! Hurray! Hurray!" cried all the children, for they liked to see
Dick ride the White Rocking Horse.

"What's next, Herbert?" asked Madeline.

"Hush, you mustn't talk in the show," cautioned her brother. "The
ringmaster is the only one who can talk, and I'm him. The next part of
the show is the dance of the Sawdust Doll."

This was Dorothy's chance, and she came out with her toy. And then and
there the Sawdust Doll did a funny little dance while Mirabell played on
a mouth organ. Of course Dorothy had to hold the Doll and dance around
with her, but it was as good as if the Doll had done it herself, and the
boys and girls clapped their hands.

"Isn't this a wonderful show?" whispered the Sawdust Doll to the Monkey,
when she had a chance, as the children crowded down to one end of the
tent to get some cookies Herbert's mother brought out to them.

"Yes, you did your part very well," whispered back the Monkey. "Do you
think I shall get a chance to do any of my tricks?"

"Oh, yes," answered the Doll. "I'm sure you're going to be the best part
of the show."

When the cookies were eaten, Herbert again took the part of ringmaster.

"The next thing in the show will be a fight with the Tin Soldiers," said
Herbert. "Mr. Dick will take half of them and Mr. Arnold will take the
other half, and there will be a battle right here in the tent."

Dick and Arnold divided the Tin Soldiers between them, and set them in
two armies on one of the big box tops. Then the tin fighters were moved
backward and forward, just as in real battle.

"Bang! Bang!" Arnold would shout. "Bang! Bang!" Dick would answer, and
so the make-believe guns were fired. The Bold Tin Soldier Captain was
moved to and fro, and so were the privates, the Corporal and the
Sergeant.

"Now the fight is over," said Herbert, after a while. "We'll make
believe both sides won, 'cause it will be nicer that way. And you can
take the soldiers away, Arnold, 'cause next is going to be a race
between the Candy Rabbit and the Lamb on Wheels."

"Oh, my Rabbit can't race with the Lamb!" objected Madeline. "The Lamb
is too big."

"Yes, I guess that's so," admitted her brother. "Well, then the next
part of the show," he cried in a loud voice, "will be when the Candy
Rabbit rides around the ring on the back of the Lamb on Wheels."

"Oh, that will be nice," said Mirabell, blowing a kiss to her woolly
Lamb.

The two girls left their seats and took their places in the middle of
the tent. Mirabell tied a string to her Lamb and then Madeline took her
Candy Rabbit and held him on the fleecy back of the Lamb.

Around and around the little grass ring in the tent rode the Candy
Rabbit on the back of the Lamb, and the boys and girls thought it was a
very nice part of the show. One of the Lamb's wheels squeaked a little
where she had caught rheumatism after her ride down the brook.

"And now we come to the last act!" said Herbert. "This will be some
tricks by my Monkey on a Stick."

"I'm glad my chance has come at last," thought the Monkey to himself. "I
must do my best!"

The Monkey had got back on his stick himself after he had driven the
Goat out of the tent, and now the funny chap was all ready to do
whatever Herbert wanted.

"The first trick," said the little boy ringmaster, "will be turning a
front somersault!"

He pulled the string, up the stick went the Monkey, and then and there,
before the crowd of boys and girls in the tent, the lively fellow
turned a somersault head over tail.

"Hurray! Hurray!" cried Dick and the others, clapping their hands.

"The next trick," went on Herbert, "will be when my Monkey turns a back
somersault."

Once more the string was pulled. Up the stick shinned the Monkey, and,
when he reached the top, he turned a back somersault. Of course this was
harder than a front one, and the boys and girls clapped all the more.

"And now, Ladies and Gentlemen!" cried Herbert, just like a real
ringmaster in a real circus, "the next trick will be when my Monkey does
a flip-flap-flop!"

And, indeed, that was a very hard trick to do. But the Monkey did it
when Herbert pulled the string, and all the boys and girls said it was
fine, and that the show was one grand affair.

The Monkey did several other tricks, and then Herbert's mother, outside
the tent, called, just like a circus vendor:

"Here's your pink lemonade! Here's your pink lemonade!"

And, as true as I'm telling you, she had made a big pitcher of sweet
lemonade for the children, and had colored it pink with strawberry
juice.

"Oh! Ah! Um!" said the boys and girls, and, really, I think the lemonade
was almost as good a part of the show as the tricks of the Monkey, the
fight of the Tin Soldiers, or the dance of the Sawdust Doll.

"Well, the show is over. I wonder what will happen next," said the Lamb
on Wheels to the Bold Tin Captain.

"Maybe the children will have another," said the Monkey. "But, while we
have the chance, I would like to talk to my friends the Sawdust Doll,
the Bold Tin Soldier, the White Rocking Horse, and all the others."

And so the toys talked among themselves, and told of their different
adventures, just as I have told you in the different books. And they all
said the Monkey was very brave to have driven away the bad Goat as he
had done.

"I'd like to know what the Calico Clown is doing all this time, since we
came away from the toy store," said the Monkey, after a while.

"So would I," put in the Sawdust Doll. "I wonder if anything has
happened to him."

And as perhaps you children are wondering the same thing, I have decided
to make the next book about that funny chap.

The volume will be called "The Story of a Calico Clown." He had many
wonderful adventures to tell about.

As for the Sawdust Doll, the Lamb on Wheels, the White Rocking Horse,
the Candy Rabbit, the Bold Tin Soldier and the Monkey on a Stick, why,
they had some strange adventures, too, and they took part in another
show. But this is all I have to tell you just now about the Monkey on a
Stick, except to say that he lived for many years with Herbert and
Madeline, and had many happy times.


THE END




THE LITTLE WASHINGTONS SERIES

By LILLIAN ELIZABETH ROY

       *       *       *       *       *

=Handsomely Bound. Colored Wrappers. Illustrated.=

=For Children 6 to 12 Years=

       *       *       *       *       *

This series presents early American history in a manner that impresses
the young readers. Because of George and Martha Washington Parke, two
young descendants of the famous General Washington, these stories follow
exactly the life of the great American, by means of playing they act the
life of the Washingtons, both in battles and in society.


THE LITTLE WASHINGTONS

          Their thrilling battles and expeditions generally
          end in "punishment" lessons read by Mrs. Parke
          from the "Life of Washington." The culprits listen
          intently, for this reading generally gives them
          new ideas for further games of Indian warfare and
          Colonists' battles.


THE LITTLE WASHINGTONS RELATIVES

          The Davis children visit the Parke home and join
          zealously in the games of playing General
          Washington. So zealously, in fact, that little Jim
          almost loses his scalp.


THE LITTLE WASHINGTONS' TRAVELS

          The children wage a fierce battle upon the roof of
          a hotel in New York City. Then, visiting the Davis
          home in Philadelphia, the patriotic Washingtons
          vanquish the Hessians on a battle-field in the
          empty lot back of the Davis property.


THE LITTLE WASHINGTONS AT SCHOOL

          After the school-house battle the Washingtons
          discover a band of gypsies camping near the back
          road to their homes and incidentally they secure
          the stolen horse which the gypsies had taken from
          the "butter and egg farmer" of the Parkes.


THE LITTLE WASHINGTONS' HOLIDAYS

          They spend a pleasant summer on two adjoining
          farms in Vermont. During the voyage they try to
          capture a "frigate" but little Jim is caught and
          about to be punished by the Captain when his
          confederates hasten in and save him.

       *       *       *       *       *

=GROSSET & DUNLAP, PUBLISHERS, NEW YORK=




THE PUSS-IN-BOOTS, Jr. SERIES

By DAVID CORY

Author of "The Little Jack Rabbit Stories" and "Little
Journeys to Happyland"

       *       *       *       *       *

=Handsomely Bound. Colored Wrappers. Illustrated.
Each Volume Complete in Itself.=

       *       *       *       *       *

To know Puss Junior once is to love him forever. That's the way all the
little people feel about this young, adventurous cat, son of a very
famous father.

          THE ADVENTURES OF PUSS-IN-BOOTS, JR.

          FURTHER ADVENTURES OF PUSS-IN-BOOTS, JR.

          PUSS-IN-BOOTS, JR. IN FAIRYLAND

          TRAVELS OF PUSS-IN-BOOTS, JR.

          PUSS-IN-BOOTS, JR., AND OLD MOTHER GOOSE

          PUSS-IN-BOOTS, JR., IN NEW MOTHER GOOSE LAND

          PUSS-IN-BOOTS, JR., AND THE GOOD GRAY HORSE

          PUSS-IN-BOOTS, JR., AND TOM THUMB

          PUSS-IN-BOOTS, JR., AND ROBINSON CRUSOE

          PUSS-IN-BOOTS, JR., AND THE MAN IN THE MOON

       *       *       *       *       *

=GROSSET & DUNLAP, _Publishers_, NEW YORK=

       *       *       *       *       *

Transcriber's notes:

Punctuation normalized.

Page 58, somesaults changed to "somersaults." (turn somersaults and)





End of Project Gutenberg's The Story of a Monkey on a Stick, by Laura Lee Hope

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE STORY OF A MONKEY ON A STICK ***

***** This file should be named 17277.txt or 17277.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/1/7/2/7/17277/

Produced by Marilynda Fraser-Cunliffe, Emmy and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://gutenberg.net/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.net),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need, is critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including including checks, online payments and credit card
donations.  To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     http://www.gutenberg.net

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
